
Siteringene i teksten er ikke som beskrevet i "Stylistic Requirements" i:
http://www.oxfordjournals.org/our_journals/biosts/for_authors/msprep_submission.html
Men når jeg ser på et par andre artikler i biostatistics så er det slik du har skrevet ser det ut som.

Er det ikke bedre å henvise direkte til "Figure 1b" eller "Figure 1d" der det passer istedenfor "Figure 1"? Jeg har gjort det noen steder for Figure 3.


I avsnittet "Motivation for this warning":
In addition, other studies investigating batch effects were mostly recommending ComBat without much concern (\citealp{Kupfer2012}, \citealp{Kitchen2011})
Ser jeg at den mest siterte artikkelen ikke er sitert: (PMID:21386892, fra plos one). Men, som du er opptatt av så har ikke den i plos one brukt covariates(eksplisitt beskrevet), det tror jeg heller ikke Kitchen har, mens Kupfer har beskrevet bruk av covariates. Uansett så synes jeg de kan være nevnt.

5.1 Reproducible research
Er linkene til github ikke kommet i teksten.


Figurtekst

1.
Det er bare ett gen.
 with 4 groups unevenly distributed in in 3 batches( 50-0-0-20, 0-50-0-20 and 0-0-50-20)
Y-aksen er "ekspression"
x- axen skiller batchene

skrive eksplisitt hva som er "rett" og "feil"?
a, 1 og 2 like, 3 og 4 like.
b, batch lager falske gruppeforskjeller.
c, lager falsk gruppe forskjell mellom 3 og 4
d lager falsk gruppe forskjell mellom 1 og 2.
e er "fasit"



We simulated expression of one gene from four study groups unevenly distributed in 3 batches containing 50+0+0+20, 0+50+0+20 and 0+0+50+20 samples from groups 1 to 4. This case, design and effects, was selected to illustrate the spurious effects that may arise from different batch adjustments. The Y-axis represent the expression, while the X-axis is used to better visually differenitate between the batches. Boxes showing group mean with 95% confidence intervals are displayed to the right of the measurments.
a) The "true" values where groups 1 and 2 have lower means than groups 3 and 4.
b) After adding batch effects, all the groups seem different.
c) After batch centering, group 3 and 4 seem to differ.
d) After two-way ANOVA based batch centering (using limma), group 1 and 2 seem to differ.
e) The least squares estimates of the group means from a two-way ANOVA which represent a more reliable way of estimating group differences than the two-step procedure in c) and d).


placed in three different batches with batch effects added. Values and boxes showing group mean with 95% confidence intervals are displayed for data without batch effects, after adding batch effects, after batch centering, and after two-way ANOVA based batch centering (using limma). The last frame shows the least squares estimates of the group means from a two-way ANOVA. This case, design and effects, was selected to illustrate the spurious effects that may arise.
